This is...
amazing...
Yeah...
It's like this every day.
Is Yui-chan okay?
We made sure she got a good night's sleep,
so she's recovered.
Has this ever happened before?
We don't know.
She was wandering around in a forest on the 22nd Floor.
It seems... she's lost her memories.
My...
That's why we came here—
We figured there might be
someone here that knows her.
Anybody in particular come to mind?
Sadly, I don't think she ever lived in the Starting Town.
When the game began, most of the children were traumatized.
I couldn't leave them to fend for themselves, so I brought them to this church.
I walk around town every day looking for children in need,
but I've never seen anybody who looks like Yui-chan.
I see.
Pleased to meet you.
I'm Yuriel.
You're from the Army, right?
Have you come to rebuke us for our actions yesterday?
Not at all. Far from it.
In fact, it's the opposite.
I actually wish to thank you for a job well done.
I've come today to ask for your assistance.
Assistance?
I recognized my cowardly past
mitometeta okubyou na kako
Remaining ignorant, I cowered in fear
wakaranai mama ni kowagateta
My other self reflects reality onto the present
ushiro no jibun ga genjitsu wo ima ni utsusu
This world, where I envisioned countless skies,
ikutsu mo no sora wo kaita koko wa kitto
will surely drive my frail heart insane.
hakanai kokoro midashite
In my dreams, I soared in the skies,
yume de takaku tonda karada wa
shaking off any anxieties that clung to me
donna fuan matottemo furiharatteku
A subconscious thought expands outward
nemuru chiisa na omoi hirogaridashite
Notice my weakness and stay by me
kizuku yowai watashi kimi ga ireba
so I can confidently accept this dark world
kurai sekai tsuyoku ireta
I continue to dream for all of eternity
nagai yume miru kokoro wa sou eien de
I wanna always be with you.
I'll give you everything I have.
Originally, we—
No, our guild leader, Thinker, never intended to create the oppressive organization that we are today.
He only wanted to provide information and food to all those who needed it.
But then, the Army grew too large.
Yes.
In the midst of internal struggles,
a man called Kibaou rose to power.
Kibaou's faction grew in power,
monopolized efficient hunting grounds,
and even went as far as to extort people under the pretense of tax collection.
However, an increasing number of people disapproved of Kibaou's neglect toward clearing the game,
leading him to dispatch his highest-leveled players to the front lines.
Kovats-san...
The terrible outcome caused Kibaou to be heavily reprimanded.
It even reached the point where we'd have
been able to exile him from the guild, but...
in an act of desperation, Kibaou lured Thinker into a trap.
Thinker was deserted, deep inside a dungeon.
What about teleport crystals?!
Did he go empty-handed?!
He was too trusting.
He agreed to Kibaou's request to converse unarmed...
It happened three days ago.
Three days ago?
So where's Thinker-san now?
He's deep inside a rather high-level dungeon,
and it seems he's unable to escape...
As his aide, I'm to blame for everything that's happened.
However, it's impossible for me to save him at my level,
and due to Kibaou's influence, I can't count on the Army either.
That's why, when I heard that two players of untold power appeared in town,
I immediately went to seek their assistance.
Kirito-san, Asuna-san,
will you please accompany me to rescue Thinker?
If it's something we're capable of, we'd like to help you.
Still, we need to confirm your story first.
I'm aware that I'm being unreasonable.
But when I wonder how he's doing,
I... feel like I'm going to lose my mind.
It's okay, Mama.
She's not lying.
Y-Yui-chan, you can tell?
Yeah.
I dunno how to explain it... but I can.
I'd rather regret trusting her than regret doubting her.
Let's go.
It'll work out somehow,
right?
You're as optimistic as ever.
We'll do what we can to help you.
I cannot thank you enough.
I can sympathize with your feeling of
wanting to save someone dear to you.
Wait here until we're back, okay?
No, I'm going too!
Yui-chan, let's wait for them here together.
No!
Wow, so this is the so-called "rebellious phase", huh?
Don't be silly!
Yui-chan, the place we're headed to is dangerous.
I'm going too!
I never imagined a dungeon like this
would be beneath the Starting Town...
This wasn't around during the beta test.
How careless.
It's probably an area that wasn't accessible until certain floors higher up were cleared.
Kibaou was planning to monopolize this dungeon.
There is a lot to be gained with a personal hunting ground.
Nevertheless, strong monsters from the 60th Floor spawn here,
so it seems he wasn't able to hunt much.
This is the entrance.
I'm not scared.
It's fine.
She's much stronger than she looks.
I'm sure she'll grow up to be a fine swordswoman.
Then let's continue.
I-I apologize for not being of any help.
It's fine. He's more than willing to do all the fighting.
You should just leave it to him.
We've come pretty far. Are we close?
Thinker has not moved from this position.
I have reason to believe that he's in a safe area.
If we get there, we can use our teleport crystals.
Man, that was a nice mob!
Sorry about that.
Well,
I do it because I want to and I get drops too.
Oh, did something good drop?
Yep!
Wh-What is that?
Scavenge Toad Meat.
What, from the frogs earlier?!
They do say the stranger it is, the better it tastes.
Cook it for me later!
Not in a million years!
Wh-What are you doing?!
Dammit!
If that's how you wanna play...
How's this?!
No!
No! No! No! No!
A-Asuna!
M-My precious meat!
Toss it already!
I'm telling you, they're delicious!
You laughed!
That's the first time I've seen you laugh!
Come on, let's go.
It's a safe area.
There's a player inside it.
Thinker!
Hey, wait!
Yuriel!
Thinker!
Don't come this way!
That passage is—
Stop!
Yuriel-san, come back!
Yuriel-san.
Please take refuge in the safe area with Yui.
O-Okay!
Mama...
Come.
Asuna.
Take Yui and the others and escape using the teleport crystals.
Even with my Identification Skill, I can't read its data.
It seems like a monster that belongs on the 90th Floor.
I'll buy you guys time, so hurry!
Ki-Kirito-kun, not without y—
I'll catch up!
Hurry!
Mama...
Take care of Yui!
Please escape with her!
Asuna!
We couldn't—
Hurry!
Kirito-kun!
Yui-chan, stop!
It's dangerous!
Come ba—
You idiot! Get out of here already!
Yui-chan!
It's okay, Papa, Mama.
An immortal object?!
Yui-chan...
Yui...
Papa, Mama.
My memories are back.
Yui-chan, do you remember everything from before?
Yes.
Kirito-san, Asuna-san,
the world called Sword Art Online is controlled by one massive system.
Its name is Cardinal.
This system, which was designed to
function without human maintenance,
controls the balance of SAO under its own judgement.
Everything from the AIs of monsters and NPCs
to the drop rates of items and currency
is controlled by programs managed by Cardinal.
Even the mental health care of players.
Mental Health Counseling Program - Prototype #1. Code Name: Yui.
That's what I am.
A program?
So you're an AI?
In order for me to effectively interact with players, I was given the ability to emulate emotions.
Nothing about me is genuine.
Even these tears.
I'm sorry, Asuna-san.
Yui-chan...
But you lost your memories...
Can that happen to an AI?
Two years ago,
on the day of the game's official launch,
for some reason, Cardinal ordered me to not interact with the players in any way.
Unable to do anything else, I only continued monitoring the mental health of players.
The situation was simply terrible.
No!
The players were overwhelmed by negative emotions like fear, despair, and rage.
Some were even driven to insanity.
Normally, I would've gone to help those players immediately.
But I was forbidden from interacting with them.
I steadily accumulated errors until I broke down.
Then one day, I noticed two players with mental parameters that greatly differed from the others.
Joy...
Tranquility...
But that wasn't all.
I wanted to get a little closer to you two, so I wandered in the fields.
So that's why you were in the woods on the 22nd Floor?
Yes.
Kirito-san, Asuna-san,
I always wanted to meet the two of you.
It's strange, isn't it?
I shouldn't even be able to think that.
I'm nothing more than a program.
Yui-chan...
You're just like a human, aren't you?
I don't know.
I'm not sure what happened to me.
Yui, you're no longer a program under the control of the system.
So you should be able to tell us what you want.
What do you wish for?
I...
I want to always be with you.
Papa, Mama!
Always...
We'll always be together, Yui-chan!
Yeah, you're our child.
It's... too late.
Too late?
This is a console that allows GMs emergency access to the system.
I used this to eliminate that monster.
But as a result, it started running a check on my program.
And since I disobeyed an order from Cardinal, I'm now considered a foreign object.
I'll soon be deleted by it.
No way...
Can't anything be done?
Papa, Mama, thank you.
This is goodbye.
No!
I can't accept that!
This is only the beginning!
We can live happily, enjoying our days together!
Yui, don't go!
When they're together with you, everyone can smile.
Please...
Continue to save everyone in my stead...
and share your happiness with them.
No! No!
If you're not with me, I won't be able to smile again!
Mama, smile.
Cardinal—
No, Kayaba!
Don't think things will always go your way!
Kirito-kun, what are you...
Right now, I might be able to use this GM account to bypass the system!
Kirito-kun!
Are you okay?
What's this?
Before Yui's admin authority was disabled, I freed her main program and converted it into an object.
Then this is...
It's Yui's heart.
Hey, Kirito-kun.
Hm?
If the game gets cleared and this world
disappears, what would happen to Yui-chan?
Yui's data is set to store itself in my NerveGear's local memory.
It'll probably be tough getting it to
render properly outside of this world,
but I'm sure it'll work out.
I see.
So we'll be able to see Yui again someday.
Our... first child.
Yeah, definitely.
Hey, Asuna?
Mama, do your best.
The far-sounding chime of a bell carried a solitary tone
tooku ni kikoeta kane no ne ga sukoshi samishikute
It rang once more, but with greater clarity and vibrance
mou ichido tsuyoku kondo wa takaku kakenuketa
Neither this ever-repeating reality nor these wishes that dot the sky
tada kurikaesu genjitsu mo hoshi no kazu no negaigoto mo
can surpass the feeling of having found meaning in tomorrow
mezasu beki asu wo mitsuketa kono omoi ni wa katenai
It's fine if the boundless world spread before me is merely a dream
me no mae ni hirakareta hatenai sekai tatoe yume demo ii
Even if it continues to waver, it always clearly resounds in my dreams
mayoi tsuzuketemo yume no oku de tsuyoku zutto zutto hibiiteku
Softly, softly shining
sotto sotto hikatteru